pages/overview/overview.md, before:

---
title: How does Mindmaps work
keywords: setup, getting started
tags: [overview]
last_updated: August 10, 2016
tags: [getting_started]
summary: "How does MindmapsDB work"
sidebar: home_sidebar
permalink: overview.html
folder: overview
---
How does Mindmaps work?
=======================

There are four simple steps in using Mindmaps Knowledge Graph, which you
perform intuitively through Graql as the language.

1. Model Your Knowledge Ontology

    Writing an ontology for a knowledge graph is analogous to defining a
    schema for a relational database, except that an ontology has much higher
    expressivity. An ontology  describes a domain’s terminology and how the
    concepts within the domain relate to each other. The ontology governs the
    correctness of the complex structure of your data.

2. Define Business Rules (optional)

    A business rule defines constraints or inference rules, based on facts
    that govern the operation of a business. For example, regulatory
    compliance rules, medical diagnosis rules, or recommendation rules.
    Business rules enable the knowledge graph to discover violations within
    data, hidden patterns from complex relationships, and implicit knowledge
    where information is missing.

3. Populate Data
    
    Mindmaps allows high throughput data writes using Graql through multiple
    options of intuitive programming interfaces. Mindmaps also aids the
    knowledge acquisition process where data is acquired from multiple
    sources.

4. Ask Graql Queries

    Querying a knowledge graph using Graql is analogous to querying a
    relational database using SQL, through programming APIs and native syntax,
    except that <span data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.definitions.graql}}">Graql</span> is more expressive.

{% include links.html %}

Commit message:

Updating content of docs to add tags, update text and various text improvements.

pages/overview/overview.md, after:

---
title: How does Mindmaps work
keywords: setup, getting started
tags: [overview]
last_updated: August 11, 2016
tags: [getting_started]
summary: "A platform-level overview of MindmapsDB."
sidebar: home_sidebar
permalink: overview.html
folder: overview
---
## THIS IS ALL GOING TO CHANGE

Original text is commented out for now, pending revision.

<!--There are four simple steps in using Mindmaps Knowledge Graph, which you
perform intuitively through Graql as the language.

1. Model Your Knowledge Ontology

    Writing an ontology for a knowledge graph is analogous to defining a
    schema for a relational database, except that an ontology has much higher
    expressivity. An ontology  describes a domain’s terminology and how the
    concepts within the domain relate to each other. The ontology governs the
    correctness of the complex structure of your data.

2. Define Business Rules (optional)

    A business rule defines constraints or inference rules, based on facts
    that govern the operation of a business. For example, regulatory
    compliance rules, medical diagnosis rules, or recommendation rules.
    Business rules enable the knowledge graph to discover violations within
    data, hidden patterns from complex relationships, and implicit knowledge
    where information is missing.

3. Populate Data
    
    Mindmaps allows high throughput data writes using Graql through multiple
    options of intuitive programming interfaces. Mindmaps also aids the
    knowledge acquisition process where data is acquired from multiple
    sources.

4. Ask Graql Queries

    Querying a knowledge graph using Graql is analogous to querying a
    relational database using SQL, through programming APIs and native syntax,
    except that <span data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.definitions.graql}}">Graql</span> is more expressive.
-->
{% include links.html %}
