pages/platform/1-applications.md, before:

---
title: What can you build with MindampsDB?
keywords: applications
last_updated: September 13, 2016
summary: false
tags: [overview]
sidebar: platform_sidebar
permalink: /platform/applications.html
folder: platform
toc: false
---

MindmapsDB makes building intelligent systems for complex data easy.

## Semantic Search Engines

Technologies like Google's Knowledge Graph pioneered the semantic search experience on the web. With MindmapsDB, you can build ground breaking semantic search tools for your organisation's corpus of information with dramatically less engineering effort.

## Data Exploration Tools

When exploring a large set of heterogeneous data, it is critical that you have the right structure and semantic model in order to effectively understand your data. MindmapsDB dramatically simplifies the data infrastructure required to navigate through layers of highly interconnected data.

## Content-based Recommendation Systems

Pandora, Rotten Tomatoes and IMDB are popular examples of technologies that exploit the power of content-based recommendation systems. MindmapsDB allows you to quickly build advanced recommendation systems for your business by seamlessly integrating a powerful query engine.

## Knowledge Management Systems

Wikipedia has shown us what a powerful knowledge management system has to offer to the world: an organised, contextualised and highly interconnected information resource reused across the web. MindmapsDB offers organisations the ability to easily develop systems to transform their information into reusable knowledge.

## Real-time analytics Tools

Many companies use analytics, but only a few of them can act on their data immediately without going through days, weeks or even months of developing the system. MindmapsDB integrates real-time analytics as an inherent feature of its query language, allowing you to analyse your data in place without engineering effort.

Commit message:

completely rebranded the documentation platfrom from MindmapsDB to Grakn

pages/platform/1-applications.md, after:

---
title: What can you build with MindampsDB?
keywords: applications
last_updated: September 13, 2016
summary: false
tags: [overview]
sidebar: platform_sidebar
permalink: /platform/applications.html
folder: platform
toc: false
---

Grakn makes building intelligent systems for complex data easy.

## Semantic Search Engines

Technologies like Google's Knowledge Graph pioneered the semantic search experience on the web. With Grakn, you can build ground breaking semantic search tools for your organisation's corpus of information with dramatically less engineering effort.

## Data Exploration Tools

When exploring a large set of heterogeneous data, it is critical that you have the right structure and semantic model in order to effectively understand your data. Grakn dramatically simplifies the data infrastructure required to navigate through layers of highly interconnected data.

## Content-based Recommendation Systems

Pandora, Rotten Tomatoes and IMDB are popular examples of technologies that exploit the power of content-based recommendation systems. Grakn allows you to quickly build advanced recommendation systems for your business by seamlessly integrating a powerful query engine.

## Knowledge Management Systems

Wikipedia has shown us what a powerful knowledge management system has to offer to the world: an organised, contextualised and highly interconnected information resource reused across the web. Grakn offers organisations the ability to easily develop systems to transform their information into reusable knowledge.

## Real-time analytics Tools

Many companies use analytics, but only a few of them can act on their data immediately without going through days, weeks or even months of developing the system. Grakn integrates real-time analytics as an inherent feature of its query language, allowing you to analyse your data in place without engineering effort.
