pages/documentation/4-graql/overview.md, before:

---
title: Graql Overview
keywords: graql, overview
last_updated: August 10, 2016
tags: [graql]
summary: "An introduction to Graql"
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/graql/overview.html
folder: documentation
---

Graql allows you to query a Mindmaps graph in a declarative, pattern matching fashion.

You can execute Graql in the [Graql Shell](graql_shell.html) or using [Java
Graql](java_graql.html).

## Query types

There are four types of queries, which are begun with the follow keywords:  
- [match](graql_match.html) - for matching patterns in the graph  
- [ask](graql_ask.html) - for querying if certain patterns exist in the graph  
- [insert](graql_insert.html) - for inserting types and instances  
- [delete](graql_delete.html) - for deleting types and instances

{% include links.html %}

## Document Changelog  

<table>
    <tr>
        <td>Version</td>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Description</td>        
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>v1</td>
        <td>11/08/2016</td>
        <td>New page for developer portal.</td>        
    </tr>

</table>

Commit message:

Remove overview & java tutorial docs as they are no longer necessary. Add tabs for Graql shell/Java calls.

pages/documentation/4-graql/overview.md, after:

---
title: Graql Overview
keywords: graql, overview
last_updated: August 10, 2016
tags: [graql]
summary: "An introduction to Graql"
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/graql/overview.html
folder: documentation
---

Graql allows you to query a Mindmaps graph in a declarative, pattern matching fashion.

You can execute Graql in the [Graql Shell](graql_shell.html) or using [Java
Graql](java_graql.html).

## Query types

There are four types of queries, which are begun with the follow keywords:  
- [match](match-queries.html) - for matching patterns in the graph  
- [ask](ask-queries.html) - for querying if certain patterns exist in the graph  
- [insert](insert-queries.html) - for inserting types and instances  
- [delete](delete-queries.html) - for deleting types and instances

## Cheatsheet reference
If you are already familiar with Graql, you may find our [cheatsheet reference](graql-cheatsheet.html) a helpful page to bookmark or print out!


{% include links.html %}

## Document Changelog  

<table>
    <tr>
        <td>Version</td>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Description</td>        
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>v1</td>
        <td>11/08/2016</td>
        <td>New page for developer portal.</td>        
    </tr>

</table>
