pages/documentation/4-querying-with-graql/compute-queries.md, before:

---
title: Compute Queries
keywords: graql, compute, match
last_updated: September 28, 2016
tags: [graql]
summary: "Graql Compute Queries"
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/graql/compute-queries.html
folder: documentation
---

A compute query executes a [Pregel algorithm](https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-main-concepts-behind-Googles-Pregel) to determine information about the graph in parallel.
Called within the Graql shell, the general syntax is:

```
compute [algorithm] (arguments) (in subgraph); (modifiers;)
```

* `algorithm` can be any of the available [statistics](#available-statistics-algorithms) or [graph](#available-graph-algorithms).
* `arguments` are different depending on the specific algorithm.
* `subgraph` is a comma separated list of type IDs to be visited by the Pregel algorithm.
* `modifiers` some algorithms can have their behaviour modified.

The specific algorithms fall into two main categories and more information is given in the sections below.
The simplest algorithm `count` can be executed using this query:

```
compute count;
```

## Subgraph

The subgraph syntax is provided to control the types that a chosen [algorithm](#available-algorithms) operates upon.
By default, the compute algorithms include instances of every type in the calculation.
Using the `in` keyword followed by a comma separated list of types will restrict the calculations to instances of those types only.

For example,

```
compute count in person;
```

will return just the number of instances of the concept type person.
Subgraphs can be applied to all compute queries and therefore are different to arguments and modifiers.

## Available Statistics Algorithms

The following algorithms are available to perform simple statistics compuations, and we aim to add to these as demand dictates. Please get
in touch on our [discussion](https://discuss.grakn.ai/) page to request any features that are of particular interest
to you. A summary of the statistics algorithms is given in the table below.

| Algorithm | Description                                   |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| [`count`](#count)     | Count the number of instances.                        |
| [`max`](#maximum)    | Compute the maximum value of a resource. |
| [`mean`](#mean)    | Compute the mean value of a resource.                           |
| [`median`](#mean)    | Compute the median value of a resource.                           |
| [`min`](#minimum)    | Compute the minimum value of a resource. |
| [`std`](#standard-deviation)    | Compute the standard deviation of a resource. |
| [`sum`](#sum)    | Compute the sum of a resource. |

For further information see the individual sections below.

### Count

The default behaviour of count is to return a single value that gives the number of instances present in the graph. It
is possible to also count subsets of the instances in the graph using the [subgraph](#subgraph) syntax, as described above.

```
compute count in person;
```

### Mean

Computes the mean value of a given resource. This algorithm requires the [subgraph](#subgraph) syntax to be used.
For example,

```
compute mean of age in person;
```

would compute the mean of the value persisted in instances of the resource `age`. It is also possible to provide a
set of resources.

```
compute mean of user-rating, expert-rating in movie;
```

which would compute the mean of the union of the instances of the two resources.

### Median

Computes the median value of a given resource. This algorithm requires the [subgraph](#subgraph) syntax to be used.
For example,

```
compute median of age in person;
```

would compute the median of the value persisted in instances of the resource `age`. 

### Minimum

Computes the minimum value of a given resource, similar to [mean](#mean).

```
compute min of age in person;
```

### Maximum

Computes the maximum value of a given resource, similar to [mean](#mean).

```
compute max of age in person;
```

### Standard Deviation

Computes the standard deviation of a given resource, similar to [mean](#mean).


```
compute std of age in person;
```

### Sum

Computes the sum of a given resource, similar to [mean](#mean).

## Available Graph Algorithms

The following algorithms all compute values based on the structure of the graph.
A summary of the graph algorithms is given in the table below.

| Algorithm | Description                                   |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| [`cluster`](#cluster)     | Find connected clusters of instances.                        |
| [`degrees`](#degrees)    | Find the number of related instances to each instance in the graph. |
| [`path`](#path)    | Find the shortest path between two instances.                           |

<!--
For further information see the individual sections below.

### Cluster

### Degrees

### Path
-->

## When to Use `aggregate` and When to Use `compute`

[Aggregate queries](./aggregate-queries.html) are computationally light and run single-threaded on a single machine, but are more flexible than the equivalent compute queries described above.

For example, you can use an aggregate query to filter results by resource. The following  aggregate query, allows you to match the number of people of a particular name:

```
match $x has name 'Bob'; aggregate count;
```

Compute queries are computationally intensive and run in parallel on a cluster (so are good for big data).

```
compute count of person; 
```

Compute queries can be used to calculate the number of people in the graph very fast, but you can't filter the results to determine the number of people with a certain name.


{% include links.html %}

Commit message:

Update comments sections across the documentation and likewise on github (update text on issues and remove old links to mindmaps.io)

pages/documentation/4-querying-with-graql/compute-queries.md, after:

---
title: Compute Queries
keywords: graql, compute, match
last_updated: September 28, 2016
tags: [graql]
summary: "Graql Compute Queries"
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/graql/compute-queries.html
folder: documentation
---

A compute query executes a [Pregel algorithm](https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-main-concepts-behind-Googles-Pregel) to determine information about the graph in parallel.
Called within the Graql shell, the general syntax is:

```
compute [algorithm] (arguments) (in subgraph); (modifiers;)
```

* `algorithm` can be any of the available [statistics](#available-statistics-algorithms) or [graph](#available-graph-algorithms).
* `arguments` are different depending on the specific algorithm.
* `subgraph` is a comma separated list of type IDs to be visited by the Pregel algorithm.
* `modifiers` some algorithms can have their behaviour modified.

The specific algorithms fall into two main categories and more information is given in the sections below.
The simplest algorithm `count` can be executed using this query:

```
compute count;
```

## Subgraph

The subgraph syntax is provided to control the types that a chosen [algorithm](#available-algorithms) operates upon.
By default, the compute algorithms include instances of every type in the calculation.
Using the `in` keyword followed by a comma separated list of types will restrict the calculations to instances of those types only.

For example,

```
compute count in person;
```

will return just the number of instances of the concept type person.
Subgraphs can be applied to all compute queries and therefore are different to arguments and modifiers.

## Available Statistics Algorithms

The following algorithms are available to perform simple statistics compuations, and we aim to add to these as demand dictates. Please get
in touch on our [discussion](https://discuss.grakn.ai/) page to request any features that are of particular interest
to you. A summary of the statistics algorithms is given in the table below.

| Algorithm | Description                                   |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| [`count`](#count)     | Count the number of instances.                        |
| [`max`](#maximum)    | Compute the maximum value of a resource. |
| [`mean`](#mean)    | Compute the mean value of a resource.                           |
| [`median`](#mean)    | Compute the median value of a resource.                           |
| [`min`](#minimum)    | Compute the minimum value of a resource. |
| [`std`](#standard-deviation)    | Compute the standard deviation of a resource. |
| [`sum`](#sum)    | Compute the sum of a resource. |

For further information see the individual sections below.

### Count

The default behaviour of count is to return a single value that gives the number of instances present in the graph. It
is possible to also count subsets of the instances in the graph using the [subgraph](#subgraph) syntax, as described above.

```
compute count in person;
```

### Mean

Computes the mean value of a given resource. This algorithm requires the [subgraph](#subgraph) syntax to be used.
For example,

```
compute mean of age in person;
```

would compute the mean of the value persisted in instances of the resource `age`. It is also possible to provide a
set of resources.

```
compute mean of user-rating, expert-rating in movie;
```

which would compute the mean of the union of the instances of the two resources.

### Median

Computes the median value of a given resource. This algorithm requires the [subgraph](#subgraph) syntax to be used.
For example,

```
compute median of age in person;
```

would compute the median of the value persisted in instances of the resource `age`. 

### Minimum

Computes the minimum value of a given resource, similar to [mean](#mean).

```
compute min of age in person;
```

### Maximum

Computes the maximum value of a given resource, similar to [mean](#mean).

```
compute max of age in person;
```

### Standard Deviation

Computes the standard deviation of a given resource, similar to [mean](#mean).


```
compute std of age in person;
```

### Sum

Computes the sum of a given resource, similar to [mean](#mean).

## Available Graph Algorithms

The following algorithms all compute values based on the structure of the graph.
A summary of the graph algorithms is given in the table below.

| Algorithm | Description                                   |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| [`cluster`](#cluster)     | Find connected clusters of instances.                        |
| [`degrees`](#degrees)    | Find the number of related instances to each instance in the graph. |
| [`path`](#path)    | Find the shortest path between two instances.                           |

<!--
For further information see the individual sections below.

### Cluster

### Degrees

### Path
-->

## When to Use `aggregate` and When to Use `compute`

[Aggregate queries](./aggregate-queries.html) are computationally light and run single-threaded on a single machine, but are more flexible than the equivalent compute queries described above.

For example, you can use an aggregate query to filter results by resource. The following  aggregate query, allows you to match the number of people of a particular name:

```
match $x has name 'Bob'; aggregate count;
```

Compute queries are computationally intensive and run in parallel on a cluster (so are good for big data).

```
compute count of person; 
```

Compute queries can be used to calculate the number of people in the graph very fast, but you can't filter the results to determine the number of people with a certain name.

## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/graknlabs/docs/issues/42" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.

{% include links.html %}
