pages/documentation/6-resources/resources.md, before:

---
title: Resources
keywords: setup, getting started, download
last_updated: August 10, 2016
tags: [getting-started]
summary: "Resources to help you learn more about graph databases."
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/resources/resources.html
folder: documentation
---

This page lists useful resources for learning about MindmapsDB and Graph Databases.


## MindmapsDB's Online Community
Find out more about us on our [Community page](http://mindmaps.io/community.html).

## Learning Resources

[The promise of graph databases in public health](http://www.pwc.com/us/en/technology-forecast/2015/remapping-database-landscape/public-health-graph--databases.html) is a clear and detailed explanation of graph databases for those new to them.  
Date: June 2015.

[Big Data Graphs and Apache TinkerPop 3](http://events.linuxfoundation.org/sites/events/files/slides/ApacheCon2015TinkerPop3.pdf) is a useful slide deck that introduces graph databases and Apache Tinkerpop.   
Date: April 2015.

[Titan: Big graph data with Cassandra](http://www.datastax.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/C2012-Titan-MatthiasBroecheler.pdf) is a presentation about Titan's data model, covering the query language and discussing edge compression, data layout, and vertex-centric indices for processing of big graph data across a Cassandra cluster.   
Date: August 2012.

## Useful Blogs

Please [let us know](https://mindmaps.io/community.html) if you have a blog or a favourite blogger that you'd like to see listed here!

## Videos and Podcasts

[Datastax's "Getting Started with Graph Databases"](https://academy.datastax.com/resources/getting-started-graph-databases) is a short, but useful, video - especially handy if you already know about relational databases.    
Date: Unknown.

[Whitepages Tech Talks: Tinkerpop and Titan](https://youtu.be/kg2x6K3IbhY). An introduction to graph database technologies Tinkerpop and Titan.   
Date: April 2014.

["Graph databases are powering mission-critical applications"](https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/graph-databases-are-powering-mission-critical-applications2). The O'Reilly Data Show podcast meets with Emil Eifrem, CEO of Neo-Technology, to discuss applications of graph databases.   
Date: December 2015.

## Books

The O'Reilly "Octopus book" [(Graph Databases: New Opportunities for Connected Data, 2nd Edition)](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920041832.do) is a useful book that explains the 'why' and 'how' behind using graph databases. It has a focus on neo4j, and can be [downloaded for free](https://neo4j.com/book-graph-databases) from the neo4j website.   
Date: June 2015.


{% include links.html %}

## Document Changelog  


<table>
    <tr>
        <td>Version</td>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Description</td>        
    </tr>
        <tr>
        <td>v0.1.0</td>
        <td>03/09/2016</td>
        <td>First release.</td>        
    </tr>

</table>MindmapsDB

Commit message:

Add comment section to main docs (excluding Graql for now just because it's taking a while to do). Reordered sections to move the troubleshooting into resources and rename it FAQ.

pages/documentation/6-resources/resources.md, after:

---
title: Resources
keywords: setup, getting started, download
last_updated: August 10, 2016
tags: [getting-started]
summary: "Resources to help you learn more about graph databases."
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/resources/resources.html
folder: documentation
comment_issue_id: 25
---

This page lists useful resources for learning about MindmapsDB and Graph Databases.


## MindmapsDB's Online Community
Find out more about us on our [Community page](http://mindmaps.io/community.html).

## Learning Resources

[The promise of graph databases in public health](http://www.pwc.com/us/en/technology-forecast/2015/remapping-database-landscape/public-health-graph--databases.html) is a clear and detailed explanation of graph databases for those new to them.  
Date: June 2015.

[Big Data Graphs and Apache TinkerPop 3](http://events.linuxfoundation.org/sites/events/files/slides/ApacheCon2015TinkerPop3.pdf) is a useful slide deck that introduces graph databases and Apache TinkerPop.   
Date: April 2015.

[Titan: Big graph data with Cassandra](http://www.datastax.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/C2012-Titan-MatthiasBroecheler.pdf) is a presentation about Titan's data model, covering the query language and discussing edge compression, data layout, and vertex-centric indices for processing of big graph data across a Cassandra cluster.   
Date: August 2012.

## Useful Blogs

Please [let us know](https://mindmaps.io/community.html) if you have a blog or a favourite blogger that you'd like to see listed here!

## Videos and Podcasts

[Datastax's "Getting Started with Graph Databases"](https://academy.datastax.com/resources/getting-started-graph-databases) is a short, but useful, video - especially handy if you already know about relational databases.    
Date: Unknown.

[Whitepages Tech Talks: "TinkerPop and Titan"](https://youtu.be/kg2x6K3IbhY). An introduction to graph database technologies TinkerPop and Titan.   
Date: April 2014.

["Graph databases are powering mission-critical applications"](https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/graph-databases-are-powering-mission-critical-applications2). The O'Reilly Data Show podcast meets with Emil Eifrem, CEO of Neo-Technology, to discuss applications of graph databases.   
Date: December 2015.

## Books

The O'Reilly "Octopus book" [(Graph Databases: New Opportunities for Connected Data, 2nd Edition)](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920041832.do) is a useful book that explains the 'why' and 'how' behind using graph databases. It has a focus on neo4j, and can be [downloaded for free](https://neo4j.com/book-graph-databases).   
Date: June 2015.


{% include links.html %}

## Document Changelog  


<table>
    <tr>
        <td>Version</td>
        <td>Date</td>
        <td>Description</td>        
    </tr>
        <tr>
        <td>v0.1.0</td>
        <td>03/09/2016</td>
        <td>First release.</td>        
    </tr>

</table>

## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/mindmapsdb/docs/issues/25" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.
