pages/documentation/3-querying-with-graql/graql-overview.md, before:

---
title: Graql Overview
keywords: graql, overview
last_updated: August 10, 2016
tags: [graql]
summary: "An introduction to Graql"
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/graql/graql-overview.html
folder: documentation
---

Graql allows you to query a graph in a declarative, pattern matching fashion.

You can execute Graql in the [Graql Shell](graql-shell.html) or using [Java
Graql](../developing-with-java/java-graql.html).

## Query types

There are five types of queries, which are begun with the follow keywords:  
- [match](match-queries.html) - for matching patterns in the graph  
- [ask](ask-queries.html) - for querying if certain patterns exist in the graph  
- [insert](insert-queries.html) - for inserting types and instances  
- [delete](delete-queries.html) - for deleting types and instances    
- [compute](compute-queries.html) - for computing useful information about your graph

## Cheatsheet reference
If you are already familiar with Graql, you may find our [cheatsheet reference](graql-cheatsheet.html) a helpful page to bookmark or print out!

## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/graknlabs/docs/issues/42" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.


{% include links.html %}

Commit message:

Added reserved keywords in Graql to overview section

pages/documentation/3-querying-with-graql/graql-overview.md, after:

---
title: Graql Overview
keywords: graql, overview
last_updated: August 10, 2016
tags: [graql]
summary: "An introduction to Graql"
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/graql/graql-overview.html
folder: documentation
---

Graql allows you to query a graph in a declarative, pattern matching fashion.

You can execute Graql in the [Graql Shell](graql-shell.html) or using [Java
Graql](../developing-with-java/java-graql.html).

## Query types

There are five types of queries, which are begun with the follow keywords:  
- [match](match-queries.html) - for matching patterns in the graph  
- [ask](ask-queries.html) - for querying if certain patterns exist in the graph  
- [insert](insert-queries.html) - for inserting types and instances  
- [delete](delete-queries.html) - for deleting types and instances    
- [compute](compute-queries.html) - for computing useful information about your graph

## Reserved keywords
Here is an alphabetical list of Graql's reserved keywords:

```graql
aggregate, asc, askboolean, bycompute, containsdatatype, delete, desc, distinct, doublefromhas, has-key, has-resource, has-role, has-scopeid, in, insert, is-abstract, isalhs, limit, longmatchof, offset, or, orderplays, plays-roleregex, rhsselect, string, subto, type-namevalueTRUE/FALSE
```Graql templates also use the following keywords:
```graql-template
anddoelse, elseifforif, innot, nullTRUE/FALSE
```

## Cheatsheet reference
If you are already familiar with Graql, you may find our [cheatsheet reference](graql-cheatsheet.html) a helpful page to bookmark or print out!

## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/graknlabs/docs/issues/42" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.


{% include links.html %}
