pages/documentation/5-migration/OWL-migration.md, before:

---
title: OWL Migration to MindmapsDB
keywords: setup, getting started
last_updated: August 10, 2016
tags: [migration]
summary: "This document will teach you how to load OWL into MindmapsDB."
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/migration/OWL-migration.html
folder: documentation
comment_issue_id: 32
---

## Introduction
This tutorial shows you how to migrate OWL into a MindmapsDB graph. If you have not yet set up the MindmapsDB environment, please see the [setup guide](../get-started/setup-guide.html).

## Migration Shell Script for OWL
The migration shell script can be found in the `bin` directory after the MindmapsDB distribution file has been unzipped. Usage is specific to the type of migration being performed. For OWL:

```
usage: ./migration.sh owl -file <path> [-graph <name>] [-engine <url>]
       -file             OWL file
       -graph            graph name (defaults to the name of the file with spaces replaced by _)
       -engine           MindmapsDB engine URL, default localhost
```

When you have read the following, you may find our extended example of [OWL migration](../examples/OWL-migration.html) useful.

Consider the following OWL ontology:

```xml
<rdf:RDF xmlns="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#"
     xml:base="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl"
     xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#"
     xmlns:owl="http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#"
     xmlns:xml="http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/namespace"
     xmlns:owl2xml="http://www.w3.org/2006/12/owl2-xml#"
     xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#"
     xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#">

    <owl:Class rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#Person"/>
    <owl:ObjectProperty rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#isAncestorOf"/>
    <owl:ObjectProperty rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#isParentOf"/>
    <owl:ObjectProperty rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#hasParent"/>

    <owl:ObjectProperty rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#hasAncestor">
        <owl:inverseOf rdf:resource="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#isAncestorOf"/>
        <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#TransitiveProperty"/>
        <rdfs:domain rdf:resource="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#Person"/>
        <owl:propertyChainAxiom rdf:parseType="Collection">
             <rdf:Description rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#hasParent"/>
             <rdf:Description rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#hasAncestor"/>
        </owl:propertyChainAxiom>
    </owl:ObjectProperty>

    <owl:NamedIndividual rdf:about="#Witold">
        <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#Person"/>
    </owl:NamedIndividual>

    <owl:NamedIndividual rdf:about="#Stefan">
        <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#Person"/>
        <isParentOf rdf:resource="#Witold"/>
    </owl:NamedIndividual>
<\rdf:RDF>
```

The ontology defines a single class (type) `Person` as well as two instances of the class - individuals `Witold` and `Stefan`. The ontology defines properties `hasAncestor` and its inverse `isAncestorOf` as well as `hasParent` and `isParentOf` properties. The `hasAncestor` property is defined as transitive and additionally defines a property chain which corresponds to the rule:

```
hasAncestor(X, Y) :- hasParent(X, Z), hasAncestor(Z, Y);
```

Upon migration, the OWL ontology will be mapped to the MindmapsDB Model. The following Graql statement inserts an equivalent structure to the one obtained through the migration mapping:

```graql
insert

"tPerson" isa entity-type;
"eWitold" isa tPerson;
"eStefan" isa tPerson;

"owl-subject-op-isAncestorOf" isa role-type;
"owl-object-op-isAncestorOf" isa role-type;
"op-isAncestorOf" isa relation-type, has-role owl-subject-op-isAncestorOf, has-role owl-object-op-isAncestorOf;
tPerson plays-role owl-subject-op-isAncestorOf, plays-role owl-object-op-isAncestorOf;

"owl-subject-op-hasAncestor" isa role-type;
"owl-object-op-hasAncestor" isa role-type;
"op-hasAncestor" isa relation-type, has-role owl-subject-op-hasAncestor, has-role owl-object-op-hasAncestor;
tPerson plays-role owl-subject-op-hasAncestor, plays-role owl-object-op-hasAncestor;

"owl-subject-op-isParentOf" isa role-type;
"owl-object-op-isParentOf" isa role-type;
"op-isParentOf" isa relation-type, has-role owl-subject-op-isParentOf, has-role owl-object-op-isParentOf;
tPerson plays-role owl-subject-op-isParentOf, plays-role owl-object-op-isParentOf;

"owl-subject-op-hasParent" isa role-type;
"owl-object-op-hasParent" isa role-type;
"op-hasParent" isa relation-type, has-role owl-subject-op-hasParent, has-role owl-object-op-hasParent;
tPerson plays-role owl-subject-op-hasParent, plays-role owl-object-op-hasParent;

(owl-subject-op-isParentOf: 'eStefan', owl-object-op-isParentOf: eWitold) isa op-isParentOf;

"inv-op-hasAncestor" isa inference-rule,
lhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $x, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $y) isa hasAncestor;},
rhs {
(owl-subject-op-isAncestorOf: $y, owl-object-op-isAncestorOf: $x) isa isAncestorOf;};

"inv-op-isAncestorOf" isa inference-rule,
lhs {
(owl-subject-op-isAncestorOf: $x, owl-object-op-isAncestorOf: $y) isa isAncestorOf;},
rhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $y, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $x) isa hasAncestor;};

"trst-op-hasAncestor" isa inference-rule,
lhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasParent: $x, owl-object-op-hasParent: $z) isa hasAncestor;
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $z, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $y) isa hasAncestor;},
rhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $x, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $y) isa hasAncestor;};

"pch-op-hasAncestor" isa inference-rule,
lhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasParent: $x, owl-object-op-hasParent: $z) isa hasParent;
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $z, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $y) isa hasAncestor;},
rhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $x, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $y) isa hasAncestor;};
```

## Where Next?
You can find further documentation about migration in our API reference documentation (which is in the `docs` directory of the distribution zip file, and also online [here](https://mindmaps.io/pages/api-reference/latest/index.html)).

Please take a look at our examples to further illustrate [SQL migration](../examples/SQL-migration.html) and [OWL migration](../examples/OWL-migration.html).
{% include links.html %}


## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/mindmapsdb/docs/issues/32" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.

Commit message:

completely rebranded the documentation platfrom from MindmapsDB to Grakn

pages/documentation/5-migration/OWL-migration.md, after:

---
title: OWL Migration to Grakn
keywords: setup, getting started
last_updated: August 10, 2016
tags: [migration]
summary: "This document will teach you how to load OWL into Grakn."
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/migration/OWL-migration.html
folder: documentation
comment_issue_id: 32
---

## Introduction
This tutorial shows you how to migrate OWL into a Grakn graph. If you have not yet set up the Grakn environment, please see the [setup guide](../get-started/setup-guide.html).

## Migration Shell Script for OWL
The migration shell script can be found in the `bin` directory after the Grakn distribution file has been unzipped. Usage is specific to the type of migration being performed. For OWL:

```
usage: ./migration.sh owl -file <path> [-graph <name>] [-engine <url>]
       -file             OWL file
       -graph            graph name (defaults to the name of the file with spaces replaced by _)
       -engine           Grakn engine URL, default localhost
```

When you have read the following, you may find our extended example of [OWL migration](../examples/OWL-migration.html) useful.

Consider the following OWL ontology:

```xml
<rdf:RDF xmlns="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#"
     xml:base="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl"
     xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#"
     xmlns:owl="http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#"
     xmlns:xml="http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/namespace"
     xmlns:owl2xml="http://www.w3.org/2006/12/owl2-xml#"
     xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#"
     xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#">

    <owl:Class rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#Person"/>
    <owl:ObjectProperty rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#isAncestorOf"/>
    <owl:ObjectProperty rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#isParentOf"/>
    <owl:ObjectProperty rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#hasParent"/>

    <owl:ObjectProperty rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#hasAncestor">
        <owl:inverseOf rdf:resource="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#isAncestorOf"/>
        <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#TransitiveProperty"/>
        <rdfs:domain rdf:resource="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#Person"/>
        <owl:propertyChainAxiom rdf:parseType="Collection">
             <rdf:Description rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#hasParent"/>
             <rdf:Description rdf:about="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#hasAncestor"/>
        </owl:propertyChainAxiom>
    </owl:ObjectProperty>

    <owl:NamedIndividual rdf:about="#Witold">
        <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#Person"/>
    </owl:NamedIndividual>

    <owl:NamedIndividual rdf:about="#Stefan">
        <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://www.co-ode.org/roberts/family-tree.owl#Person"/>
        <isParentOf rdf:resource="#Witold"/>
    </owl:NamedIndividual>
<\rdf:RDF>
```

The ontology defines a single class (type) `Person` as well as two instances of the class - individuals `Witold` and `Stefan`. The ontology defines properties `hasAncestor` and its inverse `isAncestorOf` as well as `hasParent` and `isParentOf` properties. The `hasAncestor` property is defined as transitive and additionally defines a property chain which corresponds to the rule:

```
hasAncestor(X, Y) :- hasParent(X, Z), hasAncestor(Z, Y);
```

Upon migration, the OWL ontology will be mapped to the Grakn Model. The following Graql statement inserts an equivalent structure to the one obtained through the migration mapping:

```graql
insert

"tPerson" isa entity-type;
"eWitold" isa tPerson;
"eStefan" isa tPerson;

"owl-subject-op-isAncestorOf" isa role-type;
"owl-object-op-isAncestorOf" isa role-type;
"op-isAncestorOf" isa relation-type, has-role owl-subject-op-isAncestorOf, has-role owl-object-op-isAncestorOf;
tPerson plays-role owl-subject-op-isAncestorOf, plays-role owl-object-op-isAncestorOf;

"owl-subject-op-hasAncestor" isa role-type;
"owl-object-op-hasAncestor" isa role-type;
"op-hasAncestor" isa relation-type, has-role owl-subject-op-hasAncestor, has-role owl-object-op-hasAncestor;
tPerson plays-role owl-subject-op-hasAncestor, plays-role owl-object-op-hasAncestor;

"owl-subject-op-isParentOf" isa role-type;
"owl-object-op-isParentOf" isa role-type;
"op-isParentOf" isa relation-type, has-role owl-subject-op-isParentOf, has-role owl-object-op-isParentOf;
tPerson plays-role owl-subject-op-isParentOf, plays-role owl-object-op-isParentOf;

"owl-subject-op-hasParent" isa role-type;
"owl-object-op-hasParent" isa role-type;
"op-hasParent" isa relation-type, has-role owl-subject-op-hasParent, has-role owl-object-op-hasParent;
tPerson plays-role owl-subject-op-hasParent, plays-role owl-object-op-hasParent;

(owl-subject-op-isParentOf: 'eStefan', owl-object-op-isParentOf: eWitold) isa op-isParentOf;

"inv-op-hasAncestor" isa inference-rule,
lhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $x, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $y) isa hasAncestor;},
rhs {
(owl-subject-op-isAncestorOf: $y, owl-object-op-isAncestorOf: $x) isa isAncestorOf;};

"inv-op-isAncestorOf" isa inference-rule,
lhs {
(owl-subject-op-isAncestorOf: $x, owl-object-op-isAncestorOf: $y) isa isAncestorOf;},
rhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $y, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $x) isa hasAncestor;};

"trst-op-hasAncestor" isa inference-rule,
lhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasParent: $x, owl-object-op-hasParent: $z) isa hasAncestor;
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $z, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $y) isa hasAncestor;},
rhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $x, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $y) isa hasAncestor;};

"pch-op-hasAncestor" isa inference-rule,
lhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasParent: $x, owl-object-op-hasParent: $z) isa hasParent;
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $z, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $y) isa hasAncestor;},
rhs {
(owl-subject-op-hasAncestor: $x, owl-object-op-hasAncestor: $y) isa hasAncestor;};
```

## Where Next?
You can find further documentation about migration in our API reference documentation (which is in the `docs` directory of the distribution zip file, and also online [here](https://grakn.ai/pages/api-reference/latest/index.html)).

Please take a look at our examples to further illustrate [SQL migration](../examples/SQL-migration.html) and [OWL migration](../examples/OWL-migration.html).
{% include links.html %}


## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/graknlabs/docs/issues/32" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.
