pages/documentation/5-migration/SQL-migration.md, before:

---
title: SQL Migration to MindmapsDB
keywords: setup, getting started
last_updated: August 10, 2016
tags: [migration]
summary: "This document will teach you how to migrate SQL data into a MindmapsDB graph."
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/migration/SQL-migration.html
folder: documentation
comment_issue_id: 32
---

## Introduction
This tutorial shows you how to populate a MindmapsDB graph with SQL data. If you have not yet set up the MindmapsDB environment, please see the [setup guide](../get-started/setup-guide.html).

## Migration Shell Script for SQL
The migration shell script can be found in the `bin` directory after the MindmapsDB distribution file has been unzipped. Usage is specific to the type of migration being performed. For SQL:


```
usage: ./migration.sh sql -driver <jdbcDriver> -user <username> -pass <password> -database <url> -graph <graphname> [engine <url>]
       -driver           JDBC driver
       -user             username for SQL database
       -pass             password for SQL database
       -database         URL to SQL database
       -graph            graph name (or defaults to the default keyspace)
       -engine           MindmapsDB engine URL, default localhost
```

One of the most common use cases of the migration component will be to move data from an RDBMS into a MindmapsDB graph. MindmapsDB relies on the JDBC API to connect to any RDBMS that uses the SQL language. The example that follows is written in MySQL, but SQL -> MindmapsDB migration will work with any database it can connect to using a JDBC driver. This has been tested on MySQL, Oracle and PostgresQL.

### SQL Schema Migration

Let's say you have an SQL table with the following schema:

```sql
CREATE TABLE pet
(
  name    VARCHAR(20),
  owner   VARCHAR(20),
  species VARCHAR(20),
  sex     CHAR(1),
  birth   DATE,
  death   DATE
);

DROP TABLE IF EXISTS event;

CREATE TABLE event
(
  name        VARCHAR(20),
  date        DATE,
  eventtype   VARCHAR(15),
  remark      VARCHAR(255)
);

ALTER TABLE event ADD FOREIGN KEY ( name ) REFERENCES pet ( name );
```

Each SQL table is mapped to one MindmapsDB entity type. Each column of a table can be mapped as a resource type of that entity type. So the SQL tables above can be directly mapped to a MindmapsDB schema:

```graql
insert

pet isa entity-type,
	has-resource name,
	has-resource owner,
	has-resource species,
	has-resource sex,
	has-resource birth,
	has-resource death;

event isa entity-type,
	has-resource name,
	has-resource date,
	has-resource eventtype,
	has-resource remark;

```

In SQL, a `foreign key` is a column that references another column. The MindmapsDB equivalent is a relationship type. Because SQL `foreign key` are not explicitly named, as they are in Mindmaps, the relation and roles have auto-generated names.

The SQL schema line `ALTER TABLE event ADD FOREIGN KEY ( name ) REFERENCES pet ( name );` would be migrated as:

```graql
insert

event-child isa role-type;
event-parent isa role-type;

event-relation isa relation-type,
 	has-role event-child,
 	has-role event-parent;

event plays-role event-parent;
pet plays-role event-child;
```

### SQL Data Migration

Lets imagine that the data in the SQL database is as follows:

pet:

```
---------------------------------------------------------------
| name     | owner  | species | sex | birth      | death      |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Bowser   | Diane  | dog     | m   | 1979-08-31 | 1995-07-29 |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Fluffy   | Harold | cat     | f   | 1993-02-04 | NULL       |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Claws    | Gwen   | cat     | m   | 1994-03-17 | NULL       |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Buffy    | Harold | dog     | f   | 1989-05-13 | NULL       |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Fang     | Benny  | dog     | m   | 1990-08-27 | NULL       |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Puffball | Diane  | hamster | f   | 1999-03-30 | NULL       |
---------------------------------------------------------------
```

event:

```
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| name   | date       | eventtype| remark                             |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Bowser | 1991-10-12 | kennel   | NULL                               |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Fang   | 1991-10-12 | kennel   | NULL                               |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Fluffy | 1995-05-15 | litter   | 4 kittens, 3 female, 1 male        |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Buffy  | 1993-06-23 | litter   | 5 puppies, 2 female, 3 male        |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Buffy  | 1994-06-19 | litter   | 3 puppies, 3 female                |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Fang   | 1998-08-28 | birthday | Gave him a new chew toy            |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Claws  | 1998-03-17 | birthday | Gave him a new flea collar         |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
```

Similar to how the schema is migrated, each row of data in an SQL table can be mapped to a single entity instance and each column value can be mapped as a resource.

Another feature of the migration component is that it will turn any `primary key` of a row into the ID of that instance. This works for combined keys as well.

This is how the first two rows of the `pet` and `event` tables would look if written in Graql:

```graql
insert

$x isa pet id "Bowser",
	has owner "Diane",
	has species "dog",
	has sex "m",
	has birth "1979-08-31",
	has death "1995-07-29";

$y isa event
	has date "1991-10-12",
	has eventtype "kennel";

```

If the value of a column is `NULL`, that resource is not added to the graph.

The `name` column of the event instance was not migrated as a resource. This is because that column is a foreign key. The migration component will detect when one of the columns is a `foreign key` and create a relation between those two instances:

```graql
insert (event-child: $x, event-parent: $y) isa event-relation;
```

### In Java

While the migration seems rather lengthy when written out in Graql, you only need a few lines of code to accomplish this migration in Mindmaps:

```java test-ignore
// get the JDBC connection

Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(jdbcDBUrl, jdbcUser, jdbcPass);

// get the MindmapsDB connection

MindmapsGraph graph = Mindmaps.factory(Mindmaps.DEFAULT_URI).getGraph("sql-test-graph");
Loader loader = new BlockingLoader("sql-test-graph");

// create migrators and perform migration

SQLSchemaMigrator schemaMigrator = new SQLSchemaMigrator();
SQLDataMigrator dataMigrator = new SQLDataMigrator();

schemaMigrator
        .graph(graph)
        .configure(connection)
        .migrate(loader)
        .close();

dataMigrator
        .graph(graph)
        .configure(connection)
        .migrate(loader)
        .close();

```

Please take a look at our example of [SQL migration](../examples/SQL-migration.html) to find out more, and read our [blog post](https://blog.mindmaps.io/populating-mindmapsdb-with-the-world-5b2445aee60c#) which covers using the shell script for SQL migration in more detail.

## Where Next?
You can find further documentation about migration in our API reference documentation (which is in the `docs` directory of the distribution zip file, and also online [here](https://mindmaps.io/pages/api-reference/latest/index.html)).


{% include links.html %}

## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/mindmapsdb/docs/issues/32" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.

Commit message:

completely rebranded the documentation platfrom from MindmapsDB to Grakn

pages/documentation/5-migration/SQL-migration.md, after:

---
title: SQL Migration to Grakn
keywords: setup, getting started
last_updated: August 10, 2016
tags: [migration]
summary: "This document will teach you how to migrate SQL data into a Grakn graph."
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/migration/SQL-migration.html
folder: documentation
comment_issue_id: 32
---

## Introduction
This tutorial shows you how to populate a Grakn graph with SQL data. If you have not yet set up the Grakn environment, please see the [setup guide](../get-started/setup-guide.html).

## Migration Shell Script for SQL
The migration shell script can be found in the `bin` directory after the Grakn distribution file has been unzipped. Usage is specific to the type of migration being performed. For SQL:


```
usage: ./migration.sh sql -driver <jdbcDriver> -user <username> -pass <password> -database <url> -graph <graphname> [engine <url>]
       -driver           JDBC driver
       -user             username for SQL database
       -pass             password for SQL database
       -database         URL to SQL database
       -graph            graph name (or defaults to the default keyspace)
       -engine           Grakn engine URL, default localhost
```

One of the most common use cases of the migration component will be to move data from an RDBMS into a Grakn graph. Grakn relies on the JDBC API to connect to any RDBMS that uses the SQL language. The example that follows is written in MySQL, but SQL -> Grakn migration will work with any database it can connect to using a JDBC driver. This has been tested on MySQL, Oracle and PostgresQL.

### SQL Schema Migration

Let's say you have an SQL table with the following schema:

```sql
CREATE TABLE pet
(
  name    VARCHAR(20),
  owner   VARCHAR(20),
  species VARCHAR(20),
  sex     CHAR(1),
  birth   DATE,
  death   DATE
);

DROP TABLE IF EXISTS event;

CREATE TABLE event
(
  name        VARCHAR(20),
  date        DATE,
  eventtype   VARCHAR(15),
  remark      VARCHAR(255)
);

ALTER TABLE event ADD FOREIGN KEY ( name ) REFERENCES pet ( name );
```

Each SQL table is mapped to one Grakn entity type. Each column of a table can be mapped as a resource type of that entity type. So the SQL tables above can be directly mapped to a Grakn schema:

```graql
insert

pet isa entity-type,
	has-resource name,
	has-resource owner,
	has-resource species,
	has-resource sex,
	has-resource birth,
	has-resource death;

event isa entity-type,
	has-resource name,
	has-resource date,
	has-resource eventtype,
	has-resource remark;

```

In SQL, a `foreign key` is a column that references another column. The Grakn equivalent is a relationship type. Because SQL `foreign key` are not explicitly named, as they are in Mindmaps, the relation and roles have auto-generated names.

The SQL schema line `ALTER TABLE event ADD FOREIGN KEY ( name ) REFERENCES pet ( name );` would be migrated as:

```graql
insert

event-child isa role-type;
event-parent isa role-type;

event-relation isa relation-type,
 	has-role event-child,
 	has-role event-parent;

event plays-role event-parent;
pet plays-role event-child;
```

### SQL Data Migration

Lets imagine that the data in the SQL database is as follows:

pet:

```
---------------------------------------------------------------
| name     | owner  | species | sex | birth      | death      |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Bowser   | Diane  | dog     | m   | 1979-08-31 | 1995-07-29 |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Fluffy   | Harold | cat     | f   | 1993-02-04 | NULL       |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Claws    | Gwen   | cat     | m   | 1994-03-17 | NULL       |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Buffy    | Harold | dog     | f   | 1989-05-13 | NULL       |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Fang     | Benny  | dog     | m   | 1990-08-27 | NULL       |
---------------------------------------------------------------
| Puffball | Diane  | hamster | f   | 1999-03-30 | NULL       |
---------------------------------------------------------------
```

event:

```
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| name   | date       | eventtype| remark                             |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Bowser | 1991-10-12 | kennel   | NULL                               |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Fang   | 1991-10-12 | kennel   | NULL                               |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Fluffy | 1995-05-15 | litter   | 4 kittens, 3 female, 1 male        |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Buffy  | 1993-06-23 | litter   | 5 puppies, 2 female, 3 male        |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Buffy  | 1994-06-19 | litter   | 3 puppies, 3 female                |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Fang   | 1998-08-28 | birthday | Gave him a new chew toy            |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
| Claws  | 1998-03-17 | birthday | Gave him a new flea collar         |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
```

Similar to how the schema is migrated, each row of data in an SQL table can be mapped to a single entity instance and each column value can be mapped as a resource.

Another feature of the migration component is that it will turn any `primary key` of a row into the ID of that instance. This works for combined keys as well.

This is how the first two rows of the `pet` and `event` tables would look if written in Graql:

```graql
insert

$x isa pet id "Bowser",
	has owner "Diane",
	has species "dog",
	has sex "m",
	has birth "1979-08-31",
	has death "1995-07-29";

$y isa event
	has date "1991-10-12",
	has eventtype "kennel";

```

If the value of a column is `NULL`, that resource is not added to the graph.

The `name` column of the event instance was not migrated as a resource. This is because that column is a foreign key. The migration component will detect when one of the columns is a `foreign key` and create a relation between those two instances:

```graql
insert (event-child: $x, event-parent: $y) isa event-relation;
```

### In Java

While the migration seems rather lengthy when written out in Graql, you only need a few lines of code to accomplish this migration in Mindmaps:

```java test-ignore
// get the JDBC connection

Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(jdbcDBUrl, jdbcUser, jdbcPass);

// get the Grakn connection

MindmapsGraph graph = Mindmaps.factory(Mindmaps.DEFAULT_URI).getGraph("sql-test-graph");
Loader loader = new BlockingLoader("sql-test-graph");

// create migrators and perform migration

SQLSchemaMigrator schemaMigrator = new SQLSchemaMigrator();
SQLDataMigrator dataMigrator = new SQLDataMigrator();

schemaMigrator
        .graph(graph)
        .configure(connection)
        .migrate(loader)
        .close();

dataMigrator
        .graph(graph)
        .configure(connection)
        .migrate(loader)
        .close();

```

Please take a look at our example of [SQL migration](../examples/SQL-migration.html) to find out more, and read our [blog post](https://blog.grakn.ai/populating-mindmapsdb-with-the-world-5b2445aee60c#) which covers using the shell script for SQL migration in more detail.

## Where Next?
You can find further documentation about migration in our API reference documentation (which is in the `docs` directory of the distribution zip file, and also online [here](https://grakn.ai/pages/api-reference/latest/index.html)).


{% include links.html %}

## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/graknlabs/docs/issues/32" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.
