pages/documentation/7-examples/examples.md, before:

---
title: MindmapsDB Examples
keywords: examples
last_updated: September 23, 2016
tags: [getting-started]
summary: "Landing page for MindmapsDB examples."
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/examples/examples.html
folder: documentation
comment_issue_id: 27
---


## Introduction

This page lists the examples of MindmapsDB that we suggest you study to learn how to work with our stack.  We plan to continue to expand our set, and we also encourage you to let us know if you have example code to share, so we can link to it (for example, to your repo or a blog post).

If you would like to request a particular example, please get in touch with us by leaving a comment on this page or posting a question on the discussion boards.  Our [Community page](https://mindmaps.io/community.html) lists other ways you can talk to us.

### [Pokemon](./pokemon.html)

A [simple example](./pokemon.html) to illustrate the basics of MindmapsDB Graql statements and queries. You can also find the example within the MindmapsDB distribution zip.

### [Philosophers](./philosophers.html)

This is a [simple example](./philosophers.html) to illustrate the [basics of the object model](../the-basics/mindmaps-basics.html). You can also find the example within the MindmapsDB distribution zip.


### [Moogi](./moogi.html)

[Moogi](https://moogi.co) is a large database of information about movies. We have provided some [documentation](./mini-moogi.html) and a subset of the data for you to investigate.

### [Modern](./modern.html)

The [Modern example](./modern.html) is a simple one, designed to test your knowledge of Graql.

### [SQL Migration](./SQL-migration.html)

A common use-case is to migrate existing SQL data to a MindmapsDB graph. Please see the [SQL migration example](../examples/SQL-migration.html) for an example of how to use the migrator.

### [OWL Migration](./OWL-migration.html)

For more information about migrating OWL to a MindmapsDB graph, please see the [OWL migration example](../examples/OWL-migration.html).

### Oncologists

The oncologists example walks through the basics of MindmapsDB from a beginner's perspective. You can find the blog posts here:

* [Part 1](https://blog.mindmaps.io/adding-semantics-to-graph-databases-with-mindmapsdb-part-1-82022bbb3b1c#.fyfw6h93a)    
* [Part 2](https://blog.mindmaps.io/adding-semantics-to-graph-databases-with-mindmapsdb-part2-833ec05bd28#.moeauu6sd)
* [Part 3](https://blog.mindmaps.io/adding-semantics-to-graph-databases-with-mindmapsdb-part-3-5bd4c8be91ec#.1z2qtq8ms)
* [Part 4](https://blog.mindmaps.io/adding-semantics-to-graph-databases-with-mindmapsdb-part-4-e1125e02dc85#.fc9qnj9bc)


Sample code is here: [https://github.com/mikonapoli/oncologists_ontology](https://github.com/mikonapoli/oncologists_ontology)

{% include links.html %}


## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/mindmapsdb/docs/issues/27" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.

Commit message:

Add in some extra example projects, fix a broken link in the setup guide and link to recent tutorial-style blog posts

pages/documentation/7-examples/examples.md, after:

---
title: MindmapsDB Examples
keywords: examples
last_updated: September 23, 2016
tags: [getting-started]
summary: "Landing page for MindmapsDB examples."
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/examples/examples.html
folder: documentation
comment_issue_id: 27
---


## Introduction

This page lists the examples of MindmapsDB that we suggest you study to learn how to work with our stack.  We plan to continue to expand our set, and we also encourage you to let us know if you have example code to share, so we can link to it (for example, to your repo or a blog post).

If you would like to request a particular example, please get in touch with us by leaving a comment on this page or posting a question on the discussion boards.  Our [Community page](https://mindmaps.io/community.html) lists other ways you can talk to us.

### [Pokemon](./pokemon.html)

A [simple example](./pokemon.html) to illustrate the basics of MindmapsDB Graql statements and queries. You can also find the example within the MindmapsDB distribution zip.

### [Philosophers](./philosophers.html)

This is a [simple example](./philosophers.html) to illustrate the [basics of the object model](../the-basics/mindmaps-basics.html). You can also find the example within the MindmapsDB distribution zip.


### [Moogi](./moogi.html)

[Moogi](https://moogi.co) is a large database of information about movies. We have provided some [documentation](./mini-moogi.html) and a subset of the data for you to investigate.

### [Modern](./modern.html)

The [Modern example](./modern.html) is a simple one, designed to test your knowledge of Graql.

### [SQL Migration](./SQL-migration.html)

A common use-case is to migrate existing SQL data to a MindmapsDB graph. Please see the [SQL migration example](../examples/SQL-migration.html) for an example of how to use the migrator. We also cover SQL migration in a [blog post](https://blog.mindmaps.io/populating-mindmapsdb-with-the-world-5b2445aee60c#).

### [OWL Migration](./OWL-migration.html)

For more information about migrating OWL to a MindmapsDB graph, please see the [OWL migration example](../examples/OWL-migration.html).

### Oncologists

The oncologists example walks through the basics of MindmapsDB from a beginner's perspective. You can find the blog posts here:

* [Part 1](https://blog.mindmaps.io/adding-semantics-to-graph-databases-with-mindmapsdb-part-1-82022bbb3b1c#.fyfw6h93a)    
* [Part 2](https://blog.mindmaps.io/adding-semantics-to-graph-databases-with-mindmapsdb-part2-833ec05bd28#.moeauu6sd)
* [Part 3](https://blog.mindmaps.io/adding-semantics-to-graph-databases-with-mindmapsdb-part-3-5bd4c8be91ec#.1z2qtq8ms)
* [Part 4](https://blog.mindmaps.io/adding-semantics-to-graph-databases-with-mindmapsdb-part-4-e1125e02dc85#.fc9qnj9bc)


Sample code is here: [https://github.com/mikonapoli/oncologists_ontology](https://github.com/mikonapoli/oncologists_ontology)

### R and Python bindings
It is possible to extract data from a MindmapsDB graph and use it as a data science tool for analysis. You can take the results of a Graql query and store the results in a dataframe or similar structure, for use with R or Python. This [blog post](https://blog.mindmaps.io/there-r-pandas-in-my-graph-b8b5f40a2f99#) explains and gives a simple example.

{% include links.html %}


## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/mindmapsdb/docs/issues/27" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.
