pages/documentation/7-examples/pokemon.md, before:

---
title: Pokemon MindmapsDB Example
keywords: examples
last_updated: September 23, 2016
tags: [getting-started, graql]
summary: "Pokemon MindmapsDB example."
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/examples/pokemon.html
folder: documentation
comment_issue_id: 29
---


## Introduction

The MindmapsDB repo on Github contains [pokemon.gql](https://github.com/mindmapsdb/mindmapsdb/blob/master/mindmaps-dist/src/examples/pokemon.gql), which is a simple example to illustrate the basics of MindmapsDB Graql statements and queries. You can also find the example within the MindmapsDB distribution zip.



## Where Next?

If you would like to request more information about this particular example, please get in touch with us by leaving a comment on this page or posting a question on the discussion boards.  Our [Community page](https://mindmaps.io/community.html) lists other ways you can talk to us.


{% include links.html %}

## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/mindmapsdb/docs/issues/29" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.

Commit message:

completely rebranded the documentation platfrom from MindmapsDB to Grakn

pages/documentation/7-examples/pokemon.md, after:

---
title: Pokemon Grakn Example
keywords: examples
last_updated: September 23, 2016
tags: [getting-started, graql]
summary: "Pokemon Grakn example."
sidebar: documentation_sidebar
permalink: /documentation/examples/pokemon.html
folder: documentation
comment_issue_id: 29
---


## Introduction

The Grakn repo on Github contains [pokemon.gql](https://github.com/graknlabs/grakn/blob/master/mindmaps-dist/src/examples/pokemon.gql), which is a simple example to illustrate the basics of Grakn Graql statements and queries. You can also find the example within the Grakn distribution zip.



## Where Next?

If you would like to request more information about this particular example, please get in touch with us by leaving a comment on this page or posting a question on the discussion boards.  Our [Community page](https://grakn.ai/community.html) lists other ways you can talk to us.


{% include links.html %}

## Comments
Want to leave a comment? Visit <a href="https://github.com/graknlabs/docs/issues/29" target="_blank">the issues on Github for this page</a> (you'll need a GitHub account). You are also welcome to contribute to our documentation directly via the "Edit me" button at the top of the page.
